<h1>Color Correction Based on CFA and Enhancement Based on Retinex With Dense Pixels for Underwater Images</h1>

<h3>Abstract:<h3>
<h4>Underwater picture attenuation and dispersion make colour correction and enhancement difficult. The underwater photos frequently show color bias and poor visibility. For deteriorated color-biased underwater images, this work provides a unique color correction approach based on color filter array (CFA) and an enhancement method based on Retinex with dense pixels and adaptive linear  histogram transformation. The interpolation process causes the RGB values of each digital image taken by a digital camera equipped with CFA to be reliant on and associated with each other. Therefore, we attempt to make up for the red channel by attenuation of underwater-deteriorated pictures from the blue and green channels. The Retinex model has been extensively employed to manage photos with low brightness and blur effectively. To estimate lighting, the McCann Retinex (MR) approach chooses a spiral path for pixel comparison. Nevertheless, the global light-dark connection of the entire image is not included in the primary route selection. Thus, we create a technique to gain more well-distributed and denser pixels for a more accurate lighting intensity. We also make an adaptive piecewise linear function for the histogram transform encompassing the entire RGB value. Experiments on many underwater damaged photographs demonstrate that our technique can produce acceptable performance metrics. The treated images have more information and a uniform visual effect for all channels in RGB colour space. For deteriorated color-biased underwater photos, we employ an improvement approach based on Retinex with dense pixels, adaptive linear histogram transformation, and a colour correction method based on color filter arrays (CFA). Numerous underwater image processing methods exist, such as GHS, UIED, UBL, ULA, and GLN. But in the Entropy test, NIQE, IL-NIQE, and UIQM, our model performs better than the other models. First, we adjust for color distortion in the red channel. The color cast of underwater photos is then resolved using the white balance method. After that, the picture is converted from RGB to HSV space. The image is finally converted back to RGB color space.</h4>
<hr>
<h3>References:<h3>
<h4>1. Changli Li, Shiqiang Tang, Hon Keung Kwan, Jingwen Yan and Teng Zhou, “Color Correction Based on CFA and Enhancement Based on Retinex With Dense Pixels for Underwater Images”, IEEE Access, Vol. 8, pp. 155732-155741, August 2020<br>
2. D. M. Kocak, F. R. Dalgleish, F. M. Caimi, and Y. Y. Schechner, A focus on recent 
developments and trends in underwater imaging, Mar. Technol. Soc. J., vol. 42, no. 1, pp. 5267, Mar. 2008.</h4>